Windows services are small programs that run in the background of the operating system.
Thankfully, services are much more streamlined in modern versions of Windows.
We'll talk about the types of Windows services,
how to start/stop Windows services,
change the status, and finally,
which services can be safely disabled?
There are three primary types of Windows services accounts.
Local services privileges are limited to the local computer.
Use the local service user account if
the worker process does not require access outside of the server in which it is running.
The built-in network service user account has
fewer access privileges on the system than the local system user account.
But the network service user account is still able to
interact throughout the network with the credentials of the computer account.
The local system account is
a predefined local account used by the service control manager.
It has extensive privileges on
the local computer and acts as the computer on the network.
There are numerous ways to access Windows services.
Try holding down the "Windows" key and hitting the "R".
When the run dialog box pops out, type services.msc.
There are four startup types for Windows services.
Automatic, services will start at boot time.
Automatic with a delayed start,
services will start just after boot time.
As you look through your services,
you can see, there are quite a few of them.
There is a rush when a machine boots as they all compete for system resources.
By setting a service to automatic with a delayed start,
this spreads the system load out a bit and can result in a quicker overall startup.
Manual is starting a service manually when needed,
this can be a computer user or an application.
Disabled stops a service from starting, even if needed.
From a security perspective,
you'll want to perform the analysis
each server and to disable any services that are not needed.
This will shrink the attack service for that particular machine.
In order to determine which services you can safely disable,
you'll need to work closely with
the systems administration team to baseline what the server's purpose is.
This will allow you to research and provide a list of recommended services.
You're probably wondering what are
some examples of services you can disable on your Windows server.
If you're not using Bluetooth, it can be disabled.
Hopefully, known as using a server for Xbox applications,
ActiveX installer can be safely disabled.
There will likely be several services you can disable.
Just take your time and work closely with the sysadmin team.